# Data-Analysis-on-Worlwide-Commercial-Aircraft-Accidents-using-Descriptive-Statistics-and-EDA
In this projects, i want to analyze the worldwide commercial aircraft accidents by BAAA (Bureau Of Aircraft Accidents Archives) from 1918-2020 using Descriptive Statistics and Exploratory Data Analysis Methods

The Bureau of Aircraft Accidents Archives (B3A), created by Ronan Hubert, was established in Geneva in 1990 for the purpose to deal with all information related to aviation accidentology. The primary goal of the B3A is to collect, manage and archive all information relating to aviation accidents worldwide since 1918 till today. Therefore, its records is currently composed of thousands of documents, reports, photos, etc. representing to date more than 27,400 events. The second goal of the B3A is to promote aviation safety through know-how action plans, training and information. On request, the B3A can take part to investigations, publish procedures and/or send any recommendations if necessary. The third goal of the B3A is to inform the public and professionals of the risks inherent in the operation of an aircraft and training on psychological preparedness for mass disaster. In this cases, i want to analyze the evolution of accidents and fatalities graph of the worldwide commercial aircraft accidents from 1918-2020, before and after the establishment of ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organizations) as the international civil aviation safety organization which was established in 1947.


In order to do that, i used descriptive statistics method to describe each variables on the data that i used, with the help of statistics calculations and measurements. Then, i will use exploratory data analysis (EDA) method to find the relations of each variable, then analyzing it using several types of diagrams and visualizations. Before that, i have done several data preprocessing processes to make sure the data was cleaned and prepared.

The results is, it was obtained that after the establishment of ICAO as an international civil aviation safety organization in 1947, there was a decrement in the graph of commercial aviation accidents per year worldwide. In addi-tion, the density between years is also more stretched than before the establishment of ICAO, which means commercial aircraft accidents do not always occur every year. But in contrast, the graph of fatalities from commercial aircraft accidents that have increased despite the decrement in the number of accidents. This is due to the evolution of the size of commercial aircraft to meet the needs of the world community.
